---
title: Open Source Discussion platform
subtitle: Let's discuss, share, experience
date: 2018-03-03
tags: [foss, event]
---

I am part of the RIT India Linux Users' Group (an acronym as
[RITINLUG](https://ritinlug.org/)) in our college. Our tag-line
explains about us, which says "Where Learning is Fun and Sharing is a
Learning Methodology"

As a student, I am lucky that I use F/OSS for my all activities in
college.  Because of that, whenever I need, I can see source code of
that software. We are the members of lug, loves open source
technologies and try to uses these by our own. Everyone works on their
own favourite technology and also share their work with us. There are
lots of new comers who are interested in learning open source software
and many of them face difficulties while learning. However there are
people in our college, those have better knowledge of free open
source. So to fill this gap, We have started open source discussion
platform for all.

The idea behind this discussion session is to help others while
sharing your knowledge with them. This is weekly session, and everyone
participate in this by their own interest.

## First Discussion

First session started with my classmates and juniors. Many of them
were new to open source. So our discussion started with open
source. We discovered about Free software movement in past by Richard
Stallman. We understood what the free software means?(Free as in
freedom, not free as in beer) Then we talked about
[GNU](https://www.gnu.org/) project announced in 1983, then used Linux
kernel, which was the hobby project of Linus Torvalds.

We also discussed about difficulties we face while using proprietary
softwares and how they can overcome by using open source tools. This
topics was really interesting for us.

## Ansible

Next, we started with our original topic of the day. Students gathered
there for the session were new to Ansible. So they were eager to know
about basics of Ansible. Ansible is the widely used automation tool.

Starting from basics, we discussed about use cases of the Ansible. We
saw the functionality as well. We understood concepts like inventory,
hosts, modules, playbooks etc. Many of them, comes up with an errors
while running ansible commands and executing playbooks. They shared
their solution for the errors with others, this achieved main purpose
behind this session.

In this 2 hrs of session, I personally learnt many things. We will be
continue such session in every week for us and for all enthusiast.
